Dr. Richard Landon.
I'm sorry.
Are you writing a paper, a book, a monograph?
No, I hope it'll be actually something very old-fashioned, a biobibliography, but I don't know how that'll work out.
It probably will be a bibliography with a long biographical introduction, because nothing's been done on him since 1900.
His friend, Edward Claude, wrote a memoir in 1900, and that's all there is.
So he's yet another one of those totally neglected people.
Grant Hill is the name.
Grant Allen.
Grant Hill must be a racing car driver, I think.
Probably.
Possibly.
Do you have the same kinds of concerns up here?
with literary canons that seem to be sweeping.
I just did an interview with Robert Fegel's last week.
They're very interesting.
Of course, we had this great renaissance of interest in the classics, at a time when people say they're not relevant anymore, and of course, all of a sudden, the Odyssey is a bestseller.
I think what's happened, actually, well, in academia, at least, in the last few years, cheers.
That's right.
The...
Postmodern literary criticism has become kind of outré, and Toronto wasn't one of the places that got really destroyed, where some did, where there were splits right down the middle, and English departments particularly fighting with each other over Derrida and Bakhtin and so on.
That didn't really happen here, partly because the departments were big,
that it could absorb a lot.
But what seems to me to have happened, which is really interesting, is that the history of the book, in its widest sense,
has kind of, it's the new sexy field.
And Toronto actually... You mentioned you have a senator, but this is the Library of Congress Penn for their center.
Oh, right.
You push a button and you get a different thing with that.
It's kind of cute.
Yeah.
But I mean, of course, I pointed out this is the topic now, isn't it, Jeff?
Sure.
Well, what's happened, I think, is that because...
well, using Histoire de L'Eve and the work of all those French guys, there's developed such a wider interest.
And so it's not just bibliography and the physical book and collecting, but the sociology of texts, reading, and all these things, to the point where the English department here made a tenured appointment
a couple of years ago in the history of the book.
I'm very interested in talking to some people.
The person who has the position is Gillian Fenwick.
How do you spell it?
Gillian's G-I-L-L-I-A-N.
Fenwick is F-E-N-W-I-C-K.
F-E-N-W.
It's like Fenwick, right?
Yeah, but she's English, so it's Fenwick.
But she told me last week, you know, when was it last week?
Sometime in the not too distant past that she was going to Italy.
She might, she would come, she would be there tonight if she's in town.
I mean, a lot of the people that you probably want to meet will turn up tonight.
Oh, sure.
I'm going to make a public appeal then, if it's okay with you.
We'll talk about this book that's in progress.
Sure, yeah, sure.
And reading that.
this whole concept, reading this, as Anthony Grafton said at his talk, you were there.
That was a great answer.
That was wonderful, yeah.
I said, we have to talk, even at Princeton when we go up to Harvard, you know.
We're going to get him up here, I'm not sure when, Zach, because what we've done with the Center, our Center for the Book is not like L.C.'
's, it's probably more typical.
What it really is, is that
About three or four years ago, five people got together and said, OK, we're going to have a center for the book.
And there was someone from English, from French, from medieval studies, information studies, and me.
History.
We drug in someone from history.
We left the word history deliberately out of the title because we didn't want to spend the first decade arguing about what history is.
which has been a problem for some of them.
And we invited Tom Tansel to come give the first one, found a little bit of money to bring him up, and now it's well established.
We run a seminar each year.
We just had it a few weeks ago at Massey College for graduate students where they give the papers
and then we do a demonstration on the presses, and people get to print their own keepsakes and all that kind of stuff.
That sounds great.
Can you get some literature on this that you can send me or give me along here?
This is really a major focus of what I'm hoping to write in a way that is consistent with the General Madness, accessible, good stories, but to really kind of enter these discussions.
the canon debates, the books of the future, the libraries of the future, this whole trend towards virtual stuff.
I'm going to London in two weeks, going to the new British Library.
Do you have a contact over there?
You could suggest I contact, by the way, the St.
Pancras?
Well, I know the Director General, but his name is now Bradbury.
The guy you should get in touch with's name is Mike Crump.
C-R-U-M-P.
Can you have a phone number for me?
I will get you one, yeah.
Super.
He's now... God, they change them every six weeks practically, you know, the whole structure and their names and everything.
I think there's tons of stuff on the internet.
He's the Director of Collections for the Humanities and Social Sciences or something like that.
He's under the DG
But I know a lot of people there, actually.
Miriam Foote, you should probably... I talked to her for the first book, too, and I thanked her in the acknowledgement, so I should... I don't know if I've got a current phone number for her.
She's still there.
I have that.
Now, of course, they're only... They haven't really moved yet.
But I certainly want to go over there and just see what's happening.
Well, you should get a tour.
of the new place, because it's incredible.
And that's really the purpose of his first trip in two weeks.
It's incredible.
How much of it's open and accessible now, I'm not sure.
The last time I went through the whole, the rare book reading, it's in a tower.
It's an incredible thing, because you'll see it through glass.
Here in Canada, you know, we talk about the canon debate down in the U.S.
You've got women, and you've got African Americans, and you've got traditionalists, and you've got Marxists, and you've got Afro-centricists.
We have all that, too.
But up here, it seems where you have a two-language... Do you have a different kind of a... Is there a different kind of a...
perspective on it up here?
Is it more dichotomized between French-speaking and English-speaking people?
Yes and no, yeah.
It is, and if you looked at, if you went to Quebec and talked to people there about the history of the book and about bibliography, you would find that their major influence is the French tradition.
And because the French really don't believe in bibliography,
All the great bibliographies of French authors are done by Brits and Americans.
Why is that?
Well, because... Does that make them a speakeasy as well?
Well, it has to do with the... Well, it probably has to do with the philosophic movement in the 18th century and the development of critical theories that... But why would they be so... They're just not interested in bibliography in that traditional Anglo-American way.
No, that's not entirely true.
But they certainly have a deep sense of canon, though.
Oh, yeah, very much so.
Oh, yes.
See, that has not much to do, well, it does have to do with bibliography in that it has been traditionally thought, but this is the kind of graduate school syndrome, that if you don't work on a major author, you're not doing major work.
But we've gotten away from that a lot, I think.
Not everybody has to do their wretched dissertation on Yeats and Virginia Woolf anymore.
The astounding thing is that the number of major British writers for which there is no bibliography.
Could you name a few?
Sure.
I'm still the chairman of this fellowship committee, the thing I gave the report for,
and um i'm interested in bibliography yeah okay okay we got a uh an application from a guy to do a bibliography of george eliot and i thought there's got to be a bibliography of george eliot there isn't give me a break nope you don't find it there are a couple of things that are this but there's no real bibliography the bibliography of pope is a mess
needs, and maybe David Vander Mullen will do it, but it's formidable.
Swift is terrible.
Johnson is a 1916 bibliography.
So Goldsmiths, the only thing there is is an unusable biobibliography by Temple Scott.
The contrast is there are six bibliographies of Swinburne.
Is he more major?
No, no, no.
It just happens that way somehow.
Easier to do, I think, is one.
You don't mind jumping around the block on questions and stuff.
They come to my mind.
But Fagels told me last week that he's at Princeton.
You can get a degree in English literature from Princeton without being required to study Shakespeare.
Amherst College, he is an alum of Amherst, and Scott Turrell told me this.
he was at a table one night when the president of Amherst was informed that they had just, this was about three years ago, had just graduated as summa in English who had never taken a course in Shakespeare, Milton, Chaucer, Spencer.
And I say, Jesus Christ, if you're getting a degree in literature, fine.
That's cool, that's why, but to purport, to suggest that you are a summa cum laude
graduate of a major American liberalized college in English literature, and you've never been required to demonstrate proficiency in Shakespeare.
Something's wrong there, don't you think?
Oh, sure, and this wouldn't happen here.
Toronto's unusual in Boston.
Harvard still requires it, thank goodness.
Well, Toronto does too, because you can't, you've got to start off with those.
You could, if you hate Shakespeare, you can shift yourself out of it, probably, but you've got to,
read it once.
It's like getting a PhD in the classics without being required to understand Greek.
I mean, you can do that.
You can probably do that, too.
But no, I don't.
The other unusual thing about Toronto is that it teaches bibliography in the English department.
There's a guy... Very unusual, isn't it?
It's required for... Not for undergraduate.
No.
although it should be, and there's some talk of trying to shift it in.
Well, at least for the time you ought to take bibliography... I'm an English major, and I've never had a course in bibliography.
You should take it in fourth year.
Particularly, well, maybe not everybody, but if you're going to go on to graduate studies at all, that's when you should start doing it, because the way one teaches bibliography, and I teach it, is that...
I haven't even thought about it yet.
I will let you know, though.
I'll let you know that at least part of it is how to do research, and that's when you should be learning it.
What happens even here is that people who don't want to do the business, so you have to do BIP-1.
BIP-1 is
if you're an ma or phd student uh big one is is pretty general and it's taught by different people but uh a lot of it's fairly basic stuff i mean it has physical analytical and descriptive bibliography as part of it but a lot of it's really just how to use research resources in the humanities uh big two is for doctoral students
And it's divided chronologically, so there's a medieval one, a Renaissance one, sort of 17th and 18th century, 19th century, and modern.
And they're not all offered every year, but you have to have taken it before you finish.
What that means is that if you get a doctorate from Toronto, you've seen a hand press actually operating.
You've had to do collations.
You've had to do a little bit of textual criticism.
Even if you never do it again, at least one hopes that it sticks.
But there was a guy who came up from Chicago, and Chicago is a decent place, to do a doctorate in medieval studies, and he actually ended up being the printing assistant at
Marie gets a TA.
Oh, shit, I was going to come around.
Oh, your wife is crazy.
Yeah.
What time is it?
It's 10 minutes in the morning.
Do I give her a ring?
I'll give her a ring.
Actually, I meant to ask you, would you be in touch with anyone there?
Yeah.
uh who um father derek is away at oxford and there's a fellow over there by the name of farge farge i know jim farge is fine and he's and i said i'd come by and whenever i come by so and he's there okay that's good i just yeah and i can do that on my own but you have to keep track of these guys uh because they do better off like me all right i'm i'm cool but that that i can do on my own too by the way so i'm gonna point you in the right
It's all pretty compact.
Probably the best idea is to sort of end up in the later afternoon at Fisher.
I can show you, then you've got to change.
Never had a bibliography course.
He'd done a BA and MA at Chicago in the English department.
They didn't teach it at all.
Now, that surprised me a lot with the kind of tradition that Chicago had.
I'm a guy who wrote a book about books, who loves books, who's been writing journalism about books for over 20 years and working on a new book about books.
Explain for me so I can explain for a general reader.
to the importance of bibliography.
Why is bibliography relevant today?
I have a sense of what it is, but you teach it, you know it, you understand it, you work with it on a daily basis.
This new book is going to have something to say about books and book culture on the eve of a new millennium.
I'm just wondering if you might let your imagination soar on that question.
Well, I guess what it is... What didn't this guy know about bibliography, for instance?
What surprised him?
What didn't he know?
I mean, do I know about bibliography?
I think I do.
I'm a collector.
I do research.
I'm wondering, what is it?
Well, I mean, the easy test is, could you write a collation for a 15th century book, a 16th century book, a 17th century book?
a French 18th century book and an English 18th century book.
Explain for my readers what a collation is.
Well, it's the physical, how the book was physically constructed.
So it's the context, I think, and it's not an end.
It's just a means to understanding not only the book in some kind of abstract sense, but the book in its absolute physical sense of what a codex is.
there are sheets of paper they're folded in a particular way they have the ink impressed into them in a particular way and that you can understand the only way you can understand the physical structure is through bibliographical analysis now there's it can be quite simple that
You know, this is an octavo, a crown octavo that has eight leaves and 16 pages.
People tend to think an octavo is of a certain size, which is not really the case.
It's the sheets and how they fold it, I think, isn't it?
That defines it.
Yeah, sure.
Except that the sizes of paper, when it was made by hand, were... Pretty standard.
Well, there was a limit, because it's the limit to how much the...
batman can hold uh you know they could they would use double molds but it required a great big guy who was pretty strong to wield a double mold so so you've got standard sizes and they come in and in a rough sense uh modern books uh maintain that
sizes.
You know, your average novel is about the same size as a traditional octavo.
Your average art book is about like a quarter.
Your average fancy facsimile is often a folio, or some art books are too, but of course
They're not any longer constructed that way.
I mean, they have no format in a literal sense.
It's just a bunch of single leaves that are glued together.
Basically what we have are 16-page signatures.
Yeah, that's right.
Gathering.
But that's... So the relevance is not to the general public.
I mean, a collector would want to be able at least to collate their books to discover whether...
they were complete and that sounds simple to people but in fact for older books of course it's not simple at all and of course if you collect books that are illustrated with plates and so on it's crucial to colleagues and so you you would normally want to know not for that
If your only interest in books is extracting the information from the text, then you don't really need to know anything at all about bibliography.
But somebody needs to know if you're doing research, because if you're actually doing serious research on, say, Jacobean drama, you have to have
some confidence that what you're looking at is a layer has not been made up from three different editions uh etc etc um so that this kind of analysis just provides that how many volumes at your university well somewhere around 10 million
It was—we had the eight millionth volume a couple of years ago.
So you're clearly the largest collection in Canada.
Oh, yes.
By a long way.
You're the Harvard of Canada, right?
Well, they talk about the Harvard of the North, which is all nonsense, of course, and no other places like Harvard, and particularly what Toronto's like.
I couldn't have done a Journal of Madness without living close to Harvard.
Oh, sure.
That was the same job.
But, I mean, what Toronto's like in the most general sense are the major land-grant institutions.
We're like Berkeley, we're like UCLA, we're like Michigan, we're like Indiana, we're like Texas to some extent.
So you get some public support.
It's all.
Well, not all.
I mean, they're now trying to raise the balance and so on in a fairly active way, but that's not traditional in Canada.
I can only think of one...
endowed the institution of higher education of any significance in the whole country, bishops, which you've probably never heard of.
That's new to me.
Yeah, it's in the eastern townships.
It's near Sherbrooke.
No, they're all public.
But does this basically represent more or less the quasi-efficient
Book Repository of Canada then?
Yeah, sure.
The National Library was not founded until 1952.
A little late to the game.
A little late to the game, and so it's only had copyright deposits since then.
So its sole mandate is Canadiana.
It does not collect in any other field.
So you basically carry the ball.
That's right.
I was up at Cornell a couple of months ago.
And very interesting.
You know, they're really at the cutting edge, the forefront of this whole digital stuff.
We've done some stuff with them, actually.
Point for conversation.
Well, it can hit the public consciousness.
That guy, Baker...
Oh, Baker being who we talked about.
Nicholas, is that the New Yorker?
Or Nicholson Baker.
I'm interviewing him for my book, yeah.
So, he can get the San Francisco Public Library's woes into the New Yorker.
I got a better story than his.
Mike Cornell's story is much better than his.
But, you know, the thing is... That's why I don't want to say too much about it.
That's a hell of a story.
They're not actually sending much left to the dumps without telling anybody.
And... See you in San Francisco.
We have been joined by Richard's wife, Marie.
This is interesting.
You're a book couple, right?
Yeah.
Maybe you could just, if you don't mind my jumping around, maybe Marie could just tell me from my take-in-home what you're doing now.
I know of your Philadelphia background.
I'm working as a librarian at Massey College, which has a special collection in the history of printing.
And it includes not only books about the history of printing, but a collection of 19th century iron hand presses that come under my jurisdiction.
They're all in working order.
The presses are.
The presses are in working order.
Oh, I can see this while I'm here, right?
Yep.
This afternoon.
If you'd like.
Yeah, book arts, all this stuff.
All this stuff.
Very interested in this.
And also, there's a major collection of examples of book production.
We have the collection that was put together by Rory McLean when he was working on his books on Victorian book design and publisher's findings.
And we've added extensively to that as well.
Rory McLean.
M-C-L-E-A-N.
Rory is R-U-A-R-I.
Do it again?
R-U-A-R-I.
If you're Scottish, you'd probably say Rory.
Okay.
He lives on Mallet.
Ah.
I'm sorry.
So, I have this sort of mini special collection.
It's not nearly as large as what Richard has to deal with, but it's a great choice in what we have.
Well, we were just talking about, I don't know how I'm going to integrate it, how it will, it'll just come together, but I really am interested in this whole concept of books, book culture, libraries, as we enter, you know, but to do it in the field kind of, I'm not just in Burkitts, I can't write at home, out of my imagination, I have to go out and report things that I find.
We were talking about Cornell, which I visited, and how they are now number one under, apparently, by a mandate from their trustees to reduce the holdings from 6.8 million to 6 million by the year 2000.
Well, that's right.
It's my big space.
You're going to have another?
Yep.
I'll have one.
I'll take a nap before I can talk.
And Richard was saying you have 10 PS, 10 million
The university has 10 million books.
What's the attitude of the university towards the printed book?
Oh, the attitude is that, you know, if it takes it, we'll have 20 million.
At least when we digitize things, unlike Cornell, apparently we don't throw them out.
No, they've only, so far as I can determine, they've only disposed of about 3,500 books.
But they've disposed of 3,500 books, and they've been disposed of to be done.
They strip them, and they fillet them, and they scan them, and then they dispose of them.
And that's it.
Now, L.C.
does that, too.
I understand.
And have for years.
We don't do that, although...
I, you know, you do get a kind of love diminishing returns.
I mean, you get to the point where... You guys will?
Oh, no, yeah.
But we should turn our attention to it probably.
I mean, some of these books are really clapped out.
Well, I understand.
I'm not being judgmental here.
depositing a situation that I've encountered quite by mistake.
I mean, I went up there to find out about what they did in Cambodia to help, you know, all the Cambodias archives and records were destroyed, but guess what?
There were copies at Cornell, so they were able to
more or less received in the heads of a very interesting story.
Oh, yeah.
Oh, sure, yeah.
No, it's certainly true that, you know, you cannot collect forever in a physical sense.
Everyone can't collect everything forever.
So that, I mean, what?
You see, this has to balance against, it seems to me, the way people do research.
We've gone to, I don't know how many conferences in the last few years on,
uh wither the book and uh the new millennium and all this stuff i'm going on visiting all these places right the mit media lab on one day i'm going to see barton gregorian saturday yeah well claire lc you know stanford in the corbus interview okay one thing come together okay one thing you should ask them then is that at least in the humanities
And that's what we're really dealing with social sciences to a small extent.
I'm content to see the OED go online, for instance.
Absolutely, yeah, sure, absolutely.
But you should ask these guys, the ones that do research, what it is they most, what they want.
And the answer that we've got, at least pretty consistently, is they want more.
They don't think special collections are doing enough.
He wants more now.
The scholars, the people who actually do the research, want more what?
More manuscripts, more books.
They want, well, we had a guy actually tell us about, he works on the Spanish Civil War, a guy at Illinois.
And he owns, he has a private collection as well, but he's been quite influential with shaping the collections at the university.
And he's in the English department, I think, who's in history.
Anyway, he's got... Well, Richard, before we forget, we'll get to it, but are you actively collecting special collections as we speak?
Oh, yeah.
You know, Cornell, and I'm not lacking Cornell, but I did get a sense there.
They're not collecting anything, Special Collections.
I mean, the only thing they've really added in the last 10 years is something that was given to them, which became a gay lesbian, which is a fine... There's a lot of money, which set the thing up.
There's a reason for that.
They had a Special Collections at Cornell.
Is Mark?
Is that I have the greatest... No, no, no, no, he's not.
Oh, Atkinson.
No, no, it's Tom...
What's his name?
Hickerson.
He's the archivist.
He's also in charge of the group of digital programs.
You talk about conflict.
It's not a conflict.
No, but it is.
No, but Dimunition, who's a nice guy and everything, is not head of Special Collections.
He's not acquiring a thing.
I spent two days there.
Well, that sure changed, because when Don Eddy was there, they were all over the place.
I mean, Don Eddy was the guy who proposed many, many, many years ago that, for ESTC, this is one of the 18th century short-term fellows.
We better order, yeah.
Yep, yep, yep.
Can you turn that off for a second?
We're doing okay.
But, uh,
No, but when ESTC, the 18th Century Short Title Catalog, was first given, no, this is just, well, it now is 1473 to 1800.
So it's up to 1800 now.
Oh, yeah, but this was the 18th Century, so it was 1701 to 1800.
That's not ESTC, then, isn't it?
No, no, this is ESTC.
I missed the E, I'm sorry.
Yeah, yeah.
When that was first getting going, and it's been 20 years now, that's one of the great, that's actually something you ought to write about, one of the great international projects.
Well, just let me write it down on this tape.
Just put ESTC.
But when it was first started, Don Eddy, who was then at Cornell,
and head of special collections and taught in the English department as well.
He proposed that different institutions take a decade.
That's great.
And he took the 1750s, and for years and years and years until Don Eddy was
It's perfect for being obtuse, but take a decade and do what with it?
Buy every English book in that decade.
So you're not having to worry about the business of duplication or the question of duplication.
Everybody's buying... No, but nobody else agreed to it.
But Don kept doing it.
He was buying as long as, well, until, what, three years ago?
No, more than five years ago, maybe.
they were still filling in the 1750s.
Now, that meant that... And this is where once again?
At Cornell.
Wow.
Don Eddy.
You should talk to him sometime.
And that meant, though, that they had to buy the first edition of Grey's Elegy, 1751, and all subsequent editions.
as well as all those sermons.
So on the one hand, you're getting sermons for when he started doing it, probably 10 bucks a pop.
Or less.
But the first edition of Grey's Elegy, they had a deep peak.
So you get these.
They had to have the first edition of Johnson's Dictionary, 7055.
That's great.
That's a good story.
Is this guy around?
Yeah.
He's still at Cornell.
What is he doing?
He's retired, I think.
He's retired now, I think.
What was his position then?
He was a professor of English.
And had a special collection.
So he was basically replaced by Mark, no?
Well, he was replaced by a combination of Mark and... Special collections are very low on the... Okay.
I'll have the roast beef juice.
What's up?
You're doing very well here.
Part of it is the change that has occurred in the way administratively... Part of what now?
Part of what?
Well, the transition from someone like Don Eddy to the current structure of Cornell.
And Cornell's not the only place like this.
Of course not.
It's a very dramatic example of that.
What's happened is that there's been layers of administration added in there.
Often the person who is head of that department, or whatever you call it,
is there as an administrator and is not the hands-on person who does any of the book buying or collecting.
You're not doing the collection.
Don did all of it.
Well, there were other... Yeah, French was done by... Charles McNamara was there at one time.
When you're talking about buying, you're talking about buying...
special collections or are you just talking about filling in things that students will need?
Well, no, you're talking about building special collections.
Generally not.
Usually the buying of current material is done somewhere else.
I imagine that's true at Cornell.
You know, there'll be a division between, but basically it's building a special collection.
See, this doesn't... There's no harm in digitizing.
There is no harm in digitizing a text, but you can't assume, and we don't know enough about digitizing technology.
It's like when they, you know, in the 1950s when they started microfilming.
My first question for Negroponte Wendy, by the way, tell me something about the technology.
We know paper lasts for 500 years, if properly taken care of, right?
We know when microfilming was done in the 40s and 50s,
and books were thrown away, and then those films turned out to be defective later on, that whole years of newspapers were gone forever.
Gene Ashton told me a story at Columbia.
The New York Times, for a while, actually did an edition of the Daily New York Times on rag paper.
But it's so difficult to handle, nobody uses it.
Okay, but you want the other New York Times story.
The New York Times microfilm
The first set that was bought at Toronto turned out that, you know, they don't get used every day and somebody went to use one and the whole thing was stuck together.
Some kind of gooey mess.
The New York Times replaced the whole set.
But the film was defective.
It wasn't a stable film.
Yeah, but there are instances, I mean, at least they had a master that they could replace it from.
There have been instances where text has been lost.
because the film deteriorated.
Well, newspapers are generally... I'd love an example of something really important that was lies.
That's the kind of... I love detail on that.
Well, I mean, I'm sure this comes up at some... Yeah, this would probably more the people who were in preservation would know those kinds of... I'm going to tell you a story.
I mean, destroying the original, whether...
We're talking about something in manuscript here.
Especially if it's manuscript.
But destroying the original, even if it's a printed book, you're destroying a lot of artifactual evidence that is important to scholars down the road that we may never know about in our times.
People are now, already, people are looking not merely at a text, but merely looking at the way in which that text has been presented to them.
And to destroy a manuscript,
intentionally exploring the story to yourself okay that's crazy because there's a college president i told this to he wanted to call his car analysis on they'll put a stop there i said hey hey no let them do what they're doing please i'm telling you the story as a colleague yeah and he said but i said whatever it's no big deal i said it'll be a bigger deal when i write about it trust me i said there'll be a greater good when i write it when it comes to this one when i write about it because
That seems nuts to me because all you have to do is think about what do you really want to see from the Middle Ages?
from the medieval period.
What you don't need to see any more of are books of ours.
We've seen hundreds and thousands of them, formal stuff that copied by, I mean, they're beautiful, painted and so on, but common enough.
And you know why they get preserved.
They get preserved because they're art.
You and I can buy medieval art.
for $1,000 we can get a piece of medieval art.
Because it's a lot of money these days, but... Well, no, for $1,000 you can get it.
If that was painted on a panel, on a wood panel, it's $500,000 at least.
Because it's on parchment.
But because it came out of a book, it's $1,000.
It's cheap.
It's so cheap, it's unbelievable.
So it's still a good buy, you think?
course it is uh just compare if you want if you actually wanted something from the 13th century that's there but what do you really want from the 13th century what you really want from the 13th century is uh is not the formal service books that all say the same thing even though they're wonderfully decorated or whatever what you'd really like is say um uh aquinas's notes
Now, we have quite a few of Aquinas' notes.
You mean we in general?
We in general.
The collective we.
The universe of scholars.
The lionine edition of Aquinas is going to take 300 years to do.
There's a lot of Aquinas around.
Say that again.
What?
So what's going to take 300 years?
The lionine edition of Aquinas.
Thomas Aquinas.
This is intended to be the definitive edition.
But does the scholarly community understand and accept that this is a 300-year project?
Sure.
Go to PIMS.
When you go to PIMS, ask Jim Farge about the Aquinas edition.
That's very interesting to me.
Very interesting.
See, with Aquinas, you have to spend, first of all, you have to grow up enough to learn Latin.
and do paleography and, sadly, just someday to be sainted Leonard Boyle.
Well, how many years into it are they?
A few years into it.
Like a few, 10, 20, 30, 50?
oh i it's probably about 20 or so yeah ask him you should they made a decision 20 years ago that this is something and then it won't be until the year 20. well it'll come out it'll come out volume by volume but why did it take this so long well can computers help them do this possibly uh you have to ask them about that but uh the traditional way of doing it was that you
First of all, you learn Latin, then you learn teleography.
If you're lucky, you learned it at Toronto from Father Boyle.
Now, Vatican.
Is he easy to get into the new book?
Sure, sure.
Got him up.
So you don't know about the internet, but the front part of this new book is the sweeping
tour through history, to tell little stories along the way.
Well, Lawrence is a great interview, and if you arrive at the Vatican at 9.30 in the morning, you can get into the Sistine Chapel when nobody's in there.
I plan to go to Italy in June, actually.
Try and get in touch with Leonard.
Oh, I've actually set up the whole thing.
But anyway, then you spend about 30 years learning how to read Aquinas' hand.
Then you have your period of productive research.
Then you die.
Of course you do.
Who would I ask next question?
Ask Jim Farris.
Now, Toronto is an interesting place right now, I think, from that point of view, because the Pontifical Institute of Medieval Studies was set up by the Brazilian Fathers.
Now, Leonard's not a Brazilian, he's a Dominican.
But the Brazilian Fathers are conking out.
Don Finley told me that there were 245.
That's some years ago, and I read their obits from time to time.
And, you know, there are not many new recruits, so it's going to conk out.
The PIMS will... Now, at the end of 300 years, what will you have?
Who knows?
Will they appreciate what they have?
They...
they'll have a scholarly edition of Aquinas.
In what form, who knows, and who knows whether there will be anyone to appreciate it.
But you've got to have faith.
I mean, this is... I see these in play.
This is... You've got to have faith.
But we can also tell, if you ask these guys, that the way they do research in the
Now, I'll tell you about the Spanish Civil War boot.
This guy in Illinois has a boot made in Spain, but worn by a guy from the Lincoln Brigade, and it has blood on it.
This guy was shot wearing this boot.
And this is not just a museum object or an artifact.
To this guy at Illinois, this is a text.
This can be read.
This is necessary for his research, and he would say that Special Collections should be doing more of that.
They should be broadening their scope, not narrowing it.
They should be getting more stuff, not less.
You can read it.
This is semiotics.
Are you going to interview Echo?
Yes, I already have one sitting there.
Well, ask Echo about a Spanish Civil War boot with blood on it.
It's in a private collection in Illinois of a member of the faculty there.
Does he know of this particular boot, Echo?
I don't know.
But obviously it's a significant
Well, it's just an example of, you know, the one thing that, the one aspect of postmodern literary criticism that does seem to me to have had a real influence is semiotics, that you look at things differently.
You can read signs, but signs aren't necessarily in print or script or you're
in all kinds of forms, but all it really means is you look at it in a different way.
Which is why in Alberto's book he does talk about, you know, the verb to read, you know, we read people's emotions, we read... Sure, sure, sure.
And then the other side of that is you can deconstruct it as well.
You can deconstruct the system that has been
traditionally put on it, and that's all part of it.
And that seems to me to be, you know, an interesting kind of insight.
It's just that it's not really an academic discipline, or it hasn't worked out that way.
Now, I've been to Harvard's Depository out in Southbrook.
These little modules, each one will be able to contain up to 2.5 million items.
And they can do 10 or 20 of these.
So, you know, I mean, they've got space.
And it shares space, by the way, with the primate laboratory.
There are no science.
There are monkeys over here, and there are books over there, which is kind of funny.
I don't know how to deal with that.
But they have a philosophy at Harvard that there was no such thing as a dead book, a dead book at Harvard.
And do you have a similar philosophy there?
Absolutely, yeah.
Sure.
So what do you do with books that you can't handle on the campus?
Well, we can still handle them on the campus.
You'll see Robards so far.
We're going to be, though, into off-site storage.
Of course, there's the Harvard model, which everybody talks about now.
There are some other places that have done this.
Berkeley's done it.
NLC is doing it.
Everybody, every big place is doing it.
Every big place that's downtown.
is doing it.
Well, it wants to do it, though.
A lot of them might just don't want to keep the books.
Well, that seems to me a very odd decision to me.
They figure six million books is a lot of books.
Well, it is.
Who needs more?
But it's not.
I mean, you know, what's the British Library have now?
They must be up to about
15 to 20 years.
And they talk about being all over the place.
They are now and still will be.
It's a new place in Baltimore.
I mean, they are a problem.
They take out space.
They have a phrase at Cornell that I learned there for the first time, which is called phased deterioration.
You ever heard that phrase before?
No.
They've really gone into this, you see.
Basically, it's taking a book, when we make a decision, and we become an associate.
Was the chapter on the National Yiddish Book Center, because, of course, we participated in that.
We've had stuff from them, and we've sent stuff to them.
Aaron, isn't he something?
Incredible.
As a kid, this is a little... That's... Totally off the wall.
Yeah, but rescue the whole literature.
I mean, that's incredible.
um and uh michael's jewish of course so and and knows yiddish so it uh means something to him and and in fact the collect the yiddish collection at u of t is quite good it's all in the stacks it's in the main stacks but we we have major hebrew stuff now too from a private collector and of course aaron's stuff is yiddish yeah yeah that's that's what interests michael but uh
collection development.
You see, this is a, I've seen Barton filing, I've been trying to get this, eight months, so finally my wife, I said I'd be down 15 minutes, it was 20, I called home, I said, Dr. Gregorian's assistant just called and see you Saturday.
I said, great, tell him I'll be there.
But, you know, he has, I don't know the numbers, and I don't want to say doubled, but he has really added to the collections at Brown.
Now, he went in there,
And he also commissioned a study, a woman, the dean, I don't know, it was in the New York Times, to determine what students read, and I'm dying to see that in that particular study.
But, you know, the notion that you have some kind of date,
or time frame within which something has to be read is totally at odds with the definition of a research collection is potential.
I don't care.
Say again?
Potential.
A potential reader somewhere.
I don't care.
If I buy a book, and I probably bought a lot of them in my time for the university that isn't looked at for 100 years,
It's there.
The prologue to my new book begins with this little story I tell tonight, which I complete my remarks with, and it's getting a book.
I don't want to blow it, but it's being collected in the works at the moment.
You said your obvious mission in life was to fill this building, which opened in 1973.
Was that the year?
No.
Well, UT is an example of a younger place, to take Cornell's, which consciously, in the 60s or 70s, am I right?
Yeah.
Decided that it needed to build research collections to support its graduate programs in a variety of disciplines.
That's here you're talking about.
Well, sure, it was quite
I can tell you a long story about the history of science and collections and why we have such good ones.
Well, why is that?
Because in about 1964, and this is when the
university had decided that it was really wonderful thanks great sure um consciously decided it was going to expand the school graduate studies and offer a lot more doctoral level programs and and beat up the ones that had but
They set up an institute for the history and science... History and philosophy.
History and philosophy of science and technology.
And at Toronto, the words institute, center, and program have very specific meanings.
It has to do with funding.
Institutes have their own faculty.
And class appointments.
Centers only have class appointments.
Programs kind of get along.
But someone had the wick to ask whether, in fact, there was anything to support, any research collections to support this program.
support meaning interest from the scholars, right?
Is there anything for anyone to do any research with?
So they went and looked around, and they discovered, well, yes, there were a few things, and medicine is included in this as well, to a certain extent.
But the real answer was no.
So the library said to the central administration, if you really want to have an institute that's going to work, you're going to have to fund the building of the collections.
So they said, OK, ground some extra money.
I've been waiting eight years for somebody to tell you a story like this.
An election that actually was formed
and the strength of the aspirations, the spelling of the aspirations.
Then they did two things.
There was this money, started buying great works in the history of science, and you could still buy them then.
Great works now being the printed text, or are we going up to special collections?
Oh no, going up to special collections, because at the same time, the year that I came, 1967, Stillman Drake came.
Stillman Drake was an investment banker in San Francisco who formed an interest in the works of Galileo and have collected for years one of Jake's old customers and so on.
And he did a translation of the dialogue with Diagolo
of 1632 the first english translation since um salisbury in 1664 and got einstein to write a preface for him and uh published it so he was well known but he was still working in the bank and trotto came along and the guy who was the first director of this institute
had been an undergraduate at Berkeley with Stillman.
And here's Stillman with his collection and all his knowledge.
So Toronto hired him as a full professor straight out of the investment bank.
He was then in his 50s, late 50s, might have been 60.
He came up and he brought his collection.
His collection was put on deposit.
And we started buying it, and I'm still buying it from his estate so much a year.
And then he gave us stuff as well.
Wow.
And as a consequence, we have the best Galileo collection in North America.
We have the only copy of Galileo's first book outside Italy.
And you acquire this?
Yeah.
Now, do you have the...
the fiscal backing of your institution to do this?
You certainly can't just make a decision on your own that we're going to do this.
You have to get money.
You can do anything you want if you can find the money.
This is a decision made by the university.
This is a decision made by the university administration when it was pointed out that there needed to be more funding for material like this in order to support the kind of
graduate studies that they wanted to open up.
And so they did.
They put a lot of money into building special collections in that time period.
Now, it's not that they, well, I guess, proportionately, they don't put quite as much in.
More of it comes from, well, it comes from a variety of places.
Well, we have to get more of it from outside.
Can you measure this?
Can you measure the results, the effect this has on the institution, the quality of the students that you attract?
The story of the work that emerges from it?
Sure, all you have to do is talk to some of those guys in the history of science.
And what specifically, what kinds of things do you offer?
What is a student looking for, a scholar looking for?
I mean, is it something that hasn't been looked at before?
Lots of it is, yeah, sure.
So it gives, of course, an opportunity to write about something that hasn't been done before.
Never been done before.